I want to lab rate on the announcement
made earlier today you may have heard
about this that I'm gonna leave the show
and o.9 okay lemme explain let me
explain how these things work about six
months ago I sat down here with the
folks at NBC and they said we want to
read up and I said okay what do you want
to do because I don't have a manager in
H and I I like the people I work with
they're nice folks and they said and
this is a high paying job so they said
listen we would like to do five more
years I said great I'd love to do five
more years that was six months ago and
then time went by there's all talk about
Conan O'Brien will he go to ABC will he
go to one of these other networks and
they came to me and they said we don't
want to lose Conan O'Brien I said okay
what does that mean and they said we
think Conan would be a good replacement
is a gentleman funny the hottest late
night game out there
excellent all right said you know
something I don't want to see Conan go
anywhere else and I'm proud to say this
show has been number one we will keep it
number one and then at oh nine I'll say
Conan it's taken over it's yours because
you know when I took this show over boy
there was a lot of animosity between me
and Dave and who's gonna get it and
quite frankly a lot of what I thought
well good friendships were permanently
damaged and I don't want to see anybody
ever have to go through that again cuz
this you know this show is like a
dynasty you you hold it and then you
hand it off to the next person and I
don't want to see all the fighting and
all and who's better and nasty things
back and pulling the press so right now
here it is Conan get yours see you in
five years buddy
[Music]
you know of course we're headed out to
LA to take over the Tonight Show which
is very exciting a huge thrill for me
I'd like to say something about mr. Jay
Leno Jay Leno is from day one has called
me constantly and and offered his
support every night at the end of The
Tonight Show Jay Leno says stay tuned
for Conan O'Brien he has done that since
1993 I owe that man a great deal and so
my thanks to Jay Leno for all he's done
for what they've really accomplished in
this move is you know the peaceful
transition of power you know which is
rare in television good luck next week
my friend so last night
Jay gave his state of the network speech
let's start in 2004 2004 and sit in my
office and NBC executive comes in and
says to me listen Conan O'Brien has
gotten office from other networks and we
don't want him to go so we're gonna give
him the Tonight Show I said well you
know I've been number one for 12 years
they said we know that but we don't
think he can sustain to sustain that I
said okay how about until I call the
number - then you fire me
no we've made this decision I said
that's fine I said at the time okay I'll
retire just to avoid what happened the
last time the Tonight Show with Conan
O'Brien that's right Conan O'Brien makes
its debut
[Music]
when NBC said to Jay you know what
Conan's gonna take over your job in five
years that's when you say okay fine no
hard feelings you call ABC you call Fox
you try to get my job you leave you
don't you don't hang around okay but I'm
leaving before my contract is out about
six to eight months early so before I
could go anywhere else I would be at
least a year or 18 months before I could
go and do a show somewhere else I said
to NBC would you release him from my
contract they said no we want to keep
you here I said okay what are your ideas
they said well how about primetime I
said well I don't never work they said
no no we want to put you on at 10:00 we
have done focus groups people will love
you at 10:00 well I don't know it didn't
seem like a good idea there but I said
all right I said can I keep my staff
there's 175 people at work here I said
can I keep my staff said yes you can
okay let's try it we guarantee you two
years on the air guaranteed now for the
first four or five months when you're
against original shows like CSI you'll
get killed but the spring of the summer
when the reruns come that's when you'll
pick up okay great
I agree to that so they said sure Conan
you can have the Tonight Show in the
2009 2009 was that what they said he
could have it yes so they went to Jay
big JA Leno and they said Jay we're
taking your show away from you yes and
Jason
yeah I was gonna suggest that
so Jana decides he wants to go on at the
10:00 p.m. and then he says you know
what I'm having trouble staying up this
late
is that how that happened that's exactly
what happened I see he said it's ruining
my homework so I can't iron he said is
there any chance you could put me on a
little earlier so they put him on at 10
p.m. with a fantastic variety show
[Music]
and we're now just four days away from
the debut of the Jay Leno show you just
how different is it really gonna be from
what you did all those years on this
night show well I mean I think that'll
be different is there'll be a lot more
comedy in it we're losing the desk you
know when you inherit the Tonight Show
you inherit all the tradition that goes
with it the desk and the set up and the
way it's done and we're losing the desk
[Music]
n-b-c always considered the Jay Leno
Show here a bit of an experiment in
primetime but after only four months
they've decided to end that experiment
he goes on at 10 o'clock at night he
bombs there the late-night shake up
comes say executives after NBC's
affiliates began crying foul the spite
lentils repeated plugs those local
newscasts are suffering down on average
30 percent in the ratings since Leno
became their leading they then say the
affiliates are not happy the affiliates
a 1 that owned the TV station they're
the ones that sort of make the decisions
they're not happy with your performance
and Conant is not doing well at 11:30
and you know and there was all kinds of
talk about our ratings not being very
good but they were pretty good all
summer
sure then our leading changed right and
they didn't they weren't so good anymore
it's very hard I would think to have a
lead-in for a nighttime talk show that
is a nighttime talk shop yes you know
Jay was told five years ago that it was
his turn to give up the driver's seat
right that is not his bus that's a 60
year bus that's been driving around the
country that tonight so and if you're
lucky enough to get to drive it when
they say hey you're done you give the
keys back and you say thank you you
don't flatten the tires of the guy who
comes next
Jay completely sabotaged by going on at
10 o'clock they gave Jay all the best
guests right they took away all of Conan
O'Brien's excitement and thunder right
and there's also no lead-in between
10:00 and 11:00 these are audiences
going absolutely
we guarantee you two years on the air
guaranteed for months go by we don't
make it okay so they come and they go
listen this show wasn't working we want
to let you go can I get on my contract
they go no you're still a valuable asset
to the company how valuable gonna be you
fired me twice how bad you were can I be
I said what's your idea they said we'll
look how about you do a half-hour show
at 11:30 now where I come from when the
boss gives you a job and you don't do it
well we I think we did a good job here
but we didn't get the ratings okay so
you get humble I said okay I'm not crazy
about doing a half-hour but okay what do
you wanna do with Conan well put him on
it midnight at 12:05 he keeps the
Tonight Show does all that he gets the
whole hour I said okay you think Conan
will go for that
yes yes almost guaranteed I said okay
shake hands that's it I'm not I don't
have a manager I have an agent that's my
handshake to you
assuming all sides agree NBC's plan
would be to move Jay Leno back to where
he was winning at 11:35 Conan O'Brien
would pick up at 12:05 followed by Jimmy
Fallon at 1:05 they'd like to keep them
all the question is how do you keep
these guys all happy so now they pull
the plug on on Jay they pulled the plug
on him yes and they said okay your show
is cancelled you're going back to 11:30
and Conan's going to 12:05 to do the
Tonight Show which is somebody pointed
out really at 12:05 there's no longer
that's a night show no it's the next day
show so now everybody says what will
Conan do will Cohn and stay and do the
Tonight Show at 12:05 and then what's
his name Lonnie Donegan what's his name
yeah the guy before Allen at Jimmy
Fallon gets pushed back to when does he
start he will start then at 1:00 yeah
and then and then to the other guy
Carson Daly yeah what would show would
have started at 2:00 and I called NBC
and they said well we've never heard of
Carson Daly so there and Carson Daly who
this is kind of you know he here's a kid
who that it should what would it would
it still going 130 yeah having a show at
130 is almost exactly like not having a
the difference between having a show and
having one at 1:30 and then not like
that you think Cohen will go for that
yes yes you want me to move the Tonight
Show to 12:05 forget it
I'm not doing it go to hell
there is breaking news now on Fox News
Channel Conan O'Brien has just announced
he is leaving NBC he will not do the
Tonight Show at what is it 12:05 after
the new Jay Leno proposed program this
is actually the words of Conan O'Brien a
pretty bitter into this David he's
saying that he's suddenly been put in a
very public predicament and he said he's
worked very long and hard to get the
opportunity passed up far more lucrative
offers since 2004 and he spent literally
hundreds of hours thinking of ways to
extend the franchise long into the
future and he says in this statement it
was my mistaken belief like my
predecessor I would have the benefit of
some time this cockamamie compromise at
NBC cooked-up was never gonna fly Harry
it was inevitable that corny would walk
he waited five years to take over this
prime real estate at 11:30 and now to be
evicted by the very guy he replaced and
I want to tell you so a lot of people
criticize these executives at NBC but
don't kid yourselves if they didn't know
what they're doing they wouldn't be
there
so see my people have said Conan's
people upset
hey NBC said they want a drama at 10:00
now they got it I'm giving this
situation a lot of thought you know this
is the true story when I was a little
boy I remember watching The Tonight Show
with Johnny Carson and thinking someday
I'm gonna host that show for seven
months in a statement released this
afternoon O'Brien said I sincerely
believe that delaying the Tonight Show
into the next day to accommodate another
comedy program will seriously damage
what I consider to be the greatest
franchise in the history of broadcasting
next thing I see Conan has a story in
the paper saying he doesn't want to do
that they come back to me and they say
if he decides to walk and doesn't want
to do it you want the show back I go
yeah I'll take the show back you know
they say to Jay Jay would you go back on
at 11:30 and we'll put Conan on at 12:00
and Jay goes well I guess I do that only
if Conan's okay with it
so was Conan okay with it no he said no
I'm not okay with that I don't want to
leave 11:30 and what did you do Jay
takes the job I mean I had a show my
show got canceled they weren't happy
with the other guys show they said we
want you to go back I said okay and this
seemed to make a lot of people really
upset because they're taking sides
just the mere mention of Jay Leno's name
makes me want to vomit
I'm friends with Jay and I'm friends
with Conan and I'm friends with Dave I
mean I'm friends with all those guys
I'm telling jokes and making fun of Jay
Leno over and over and over relentlessly
mercilessly simply for one reason and
that is I'm really enjoying it
it's
I don't know it's just fun I'm watching
the competition shooting himself in the
foot and just laughing my ass off you're
known for pranks what's the best prank
you ever pulled the best prank I ever
pulled was I told the guy I told the guy
that five years from now I'm gonna give
you my show and then when the five years
came I gave it to him and then I took it
back almost I think he works at Fox or
something out yeah I got hell is going
on over that NBC what does NBC stand for
nobody backs Conan
who would have imagined that the Mexican
talk-show host would have the most job
security I'm not going to wear same
channel same time just weak 911 only on
TBS and so and so now all of a sudden
comes this outpouring of anger directed
at Jay and I keep saying to people well
what what has he done wrong he's just
kind of doing what the network tells him
to do ya know they say Jay go to ten so
they say they say Jay all right Jaden
ten o'clock didn't work him back to 11
who wouldn't take that job though who
wouldn't do that you said you would have
you wouldn't have taken the job if the
situation had been reversed you wouldn't
have come back on The Tonight Show I'm
on record is surrendering The Tonight
Show because it didn't feel right to me
to keep it under certain circumstances
so if I had surrendered the Tonight Show
and handed it over to somebody publicly
and wish them well and then I don't
would not have come back a couple six
months later but that's me you know is
it true that you made this prediction
you told Conan that this is exactly what
was it going to happen I went on Conan
O'Brien show and I turned to him and I
said you don't really think you're
getting the Tonight Show and I read in
the paper that Conan is going to replace
Jay Leno thank God
[Applause]
what do you think that's really gonna
happen do you know 40% chance that's
gonna happen I think most people think
you got screwed I mean Jay Leno thinks
you got screwed Jay Leno thinks he got
screwed you know I've been number one
for 12 years my show got cancelled we
guarantee you two years on the air
guaranteed you fired me twice Conan
O'Brien has joked about the pending late
night shuffle here at NBC but last night
he really took the gloves off hosting
the Tonight Show has been the
fulfillment of a lifelong dream for me
and I just want to say to the kids out
there watching you can do anything you
want in life yeah yeah unless Jay Leno
wants to do it too
[Applause]
I think the longer we just sit here the
more uncomfortable it will make jail you
know James watching right now it's
stunning how Jay Leno outfoxed you yeah
he's good the shrewdest guy he outfoxed
yeah you're a good company
he had Fox Johnny Carson David Letterman
every ten years that Resnick rube shows
up I like some clown off the bus the
cardboard suit gee golly so that's the
funk you guys yeah yeah just like as
good news and bad news you are doing the
Tonight Show it's true but remember that
discussion where we had where you said
I'll never have to follow
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
now that Jay Leno is going back to his
old time spot the big question is will
David Letterman go back to his old
intern swallow this Conan O'Brien has
been a gentleman he's a good guy I have
no animosity towards him this is all
business
don't blame : O'Brien nice guy good
family guy he said that we should not
blame Conan for what's going on don't
blame kkona don't blame Conan for what's
going on and I said to myself no one is
blaming I know a lot of you people think
that Conan pushed himself out of a job I
don't blame him he's not that kind of
guy he would never do that to himself
well Conan O'Brien end up at another
network assuming he leaves NBC I think
the major complications with his
contract are is he owed a lot of money
because they the contract has been
breached
so now NBC has to do something about it
and they have to do one of two things
they have to either pay him an enormous
sum of money I mean I mean how much
money do you think we're talking about
40 40 million dollars about in that
neighborhood my friend just about in
that neighborhood I would have rooted
for that bobblehead Leno to stay longer
and you could have got the 40 mil for
nothing right what about your deal you
would've got 40 million dollars and
right no I don't think so $20 not to
work yeah sweet I got a look into that
is that a possibility and that's big
dough that's big dough because this
whole mistake over there at NBC has cost
them hundreds and hundreds and hundreds
of millions of dollars as debacles go in
network television where does this rank
it ranks slightly behind New Coke they
just want Conan to quit and go away and
do a show in his basement that's what
they want
that's exactly what they want but he's a
smart kid he's not gonna do that he want
he's in there for the cash or they waive
his non-compete clause so he can go to
fox or come here and take my job now
everyone this is I guess it's all over
the internet people are talking about
the terms of my settlement and what's it
all about and the terms of my settlement
I'll be honest with you say that I can't
host another show for seven months so
ladies and gentlemen next week look
forward to the Andy Richter show with
his sidekick me
well our time here at NBC is just about
out but and I've been saying this all
week this is interesting until this last
show ends we can pretty much do whatever
we want and NBC has to pay for it
so all this week we've been introducing
new comedy bits there aren't so much
funny as they are crazy expensive
Wednesday night we debuted a new
character the bugatti veyron mouse
there's accompanied by the original
master recording of the Rolling Stone
satisfaction that little beauty cuss NBC
1.5 million dollars last night we
introduced another great new purchase
2009 Kentucky Derby winner mine that
bird wearing a mink Snuggie there he is
there he is watching restricted NFL
Super Bowl footage total price tag for
that one four point eight million
dollars well tonight for our last show
we went all out it's gonna take NBC
several years to pay this off it's a
doozy we just bought this using their
credit card from the Smithsonian
Institute please welcome a rare fossil
skeleton of a giant ground sloth ladies
and gentlemen
he's spraying beluga caviar on an
original Picasso total costs for this
bit sixty five million dollars
all right well things are wrapping up
around here and I've just been informed
that I have to undergo this is weird an
exit interview all right let's begin
let's begin this question would you
describe your experience here at NBC as
positive very positive or extremely
positive positive we'll go with positive
but that's the three choices I have
positive did anything trigger your
decision to leave yes would you consider
working for NBC again in the future I
don't know I can't say at this time
circle back to that I am going to need
your ID badge
oh my ID all right okay now let's
[Laughter]
and he don't help him
I think we're done I think we are done
here steve carell everybody thank you so
much
between my time at Senate live the
late-night show and my brief run here in
the Tonight Show I've worked at NBC for
over 20 years yes we have our
differences right now yes we're going
our separate ways but this company has
been my home for most of my adult life I
am enormous ly proud of the work we've
done together and I want to thank NBC
for making it all possible every
comedian every comedian dreams of
hosting the Tonight Show and for seven
months I got to do it and I did it my
way with people I love I do not regret
one second so to all the people watching
I can never ever thank you enough for
the kindness to me I'll think about it
for the rest of my life and all I ask is
one thing and this is I'm asking is
particularly of young people that watch
please do not be cynical
I hate cynicism for the record it's my
least favorite quality it doesn't lead
anywhere nobody in life gets exactly
what they thought they were going to get
but if you work really hard and you're
kind amazing things will happen
[Music]
Jay Leno's back in The Tonight Show the
Monday after the Olympics here on NBC
well Jay Leno is back in a very familiar
spot hosting the Tonight Show your host
at least for a while got it man I'm a
little bit nervous not cuz it's my first
night back because they know Dave and
Oprah are watching
I want you to move The Tonight Show at
12:05 I don't care who you work get a
job ellipses you're very good-looking
you don't really think you're getting
the Tonight Show what's his name Lonnie
Donegan what's his name
[Music]
don't do it Conan Larry King and your
guardian a but you're not dead never
mind that I have the words for you
basic table basic
Coenen I think you'll find our Terms
very attractive I think you have to be
[Music]
well looks like everything's gonna be
okay
welcome to TBS and really welcome to
basic cable it's thrilling basic
[Applause]
I never heard basic-cable get shrieks of
excitement first watch Conan all-new
weeknights at 11:00 then in all-new
Lopez tonight at midnight last Wednesday
Steve Koonin who is the head of TBS flew
from Atlanta to Burbank sat in my office
and said I have something that sounds
really crazy he said what would you
think about Conan O'Brien coming to TBS
and taking the 11 o'clock spot and you
go into midnight Conan O'Brien only
wanted to know that he could do the type
of show that he wanted to do and his
biggest concern was that he was not
going to do to me what was done to him
he did not want to get as they say on
Twitter Leonard I am NOT getting Leonard
I welcome Conan
[Applause]
coming here from Warner Brothers Studios
[Music]
[Applause]
well I want to drop by show my respects
you know well you know for you to bring
a basket commemorating sort of the the
tough situation I'm in is really nice
well that's not what that is well what
is this basket for this is an older
basket I I procrastinate as you know and
this is a basket I got you back in June
well it is a card also yeah I see that
it says congrats that's that's terrific
yeah why not
congratulations Coenen and finally
securing your place as permanent host of
The Tonight Show
[Music]
that's something they can never take
away from one
[Music]
late night television losing a legend
arguably tonight Jay Leno will say his
final farewell we think I mean he's gone
through this once before this has been
the greatest 22 years of my life and I'm
really excited for Jimmy Fallon you know
it's fun to kind of be the old guy and
sit back here and see where the next
generation takes this great institution
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to the Tonight Show
I'm Jimmy Fallon and I'll be your host
for now of course I wouldn't be here
tonight if it weren't for the previous
Tonight Show host so I want to say thank
you to Steve Allen Jack Paar Johnny
Carson Jay Leno Conan O'Brien and Jay
Leno very very nice I got a call from my
mom today she says well David I see you
didn't get the Tonight Show again this
is the part I don't understand I mean
you're still well number one I think
because you have talented people while
you wait so long before they give other
opportunities you don't want to lose
that opportunity that makes sense to me
and I thought Jimmy has been extremely
gracious and polite you said all of the
same things exactly about Conan yeah did
I say the same thing yeah problem well
maybe I did I don't know why these guys
care about timeslot sir everybody just
puts their things on TiVo I can watch
anything without commercials these guys
are living in the 50s where 11:30 is
important
I heard 30 important I heard Conan say
that that is well said norm number like
do people tape that though do people
tape The Tonight Show where they just
kind of watch it when I go to the bed I
tape everything I just see it on YouTube
[Applause]
what are you what are you doing you know
I was back in New York and I decided I
want to come by check out my old studio
yeah that's right you were here for 16
16 years yeah and then then what what
happened don't you worry about that
you're young